Containers are completely isolated environments which containers everything that an application needs to run.

So as long as anyone has docker, they would be able to run it

The image shows the difference between VM and Docker containers

What is a docker image ?
    A Docker image is a lightweight, standalone, and immutable file that contains the source code,
    libraries, dependencies, tools, and other files necessary for an application to run.
    It serves as a blueprint for creating Docker containers.

What is a docker container?

    A Docker container is a runnable instance of a Docker image.
    It encapsulates the application and its dependencies, running as an isolated process on the host operating system.
    Containers can be started, stopped, moved, and deleted.


Images are like classes in python while the containers are like objects in the class.

So you can get many objects from the classes, and the class give the footprint of the object.



Namespace tricks the container to make it think it has its on process but it is a lie
while Cgroups restricts the resource it can use.


Docker Storage
    When docker is installed it create a folder /var/lib/docker this dockers
    data related to docker on the hosts like images, container, volumes etc

    It gets the information about the layers when you build from the local storage, so
    it does not need to update it from dockerhub.

    Volume and Bind Mount:

        When it is mounted to the default volume of docker it is called volume mount
        and you any other path on the host it is called bind mount.


    docker run -d --name app2 -p 80:5000 --env-file .env --mount type=bind,source=$(pwd)/templates,target=/app/templates apptest:v1

    docker volume ls # list all volumes

    docker volume rm volume_name

    docker volume prune # remove unused volume
    docker volume prune -f # forcefully

    Remove all volumes # terminate all container first
        docker volume rm $(docker volume ls -q)


Docker Network
    It allows containers to communicate within the same network




Docker Network
    Network is like subnets